Vape Ramblings


Some of you may have read the previous incarnation of this post when i temporarily had a GoDaddy blog concurrently to this but then abandoned - unfortunately i failed to transpose it across and so am writing this again from scratch just because [just because i liked the pic so much and am passionate about the subject i guess].

This isn't to extol the coolness of blowing big clouds of VG or to crow about the wonders of quitting smoking. it's simply about my appreciation of th technological beauty of my particular vape setup:

i originally switched from smoking to vaping in Jan 2019 because it had simply got prohibitively expensive to smoke tobacco - even rolling tobacco was uopto £17 or more per 50g pouch, and i was smoking 30 - 40 rollies a day. for the xmas 18/19 i bought my self a £100 investment of a smok RHA220W.tc mod with matching tank, EFEST 3500mAh 18650 batteries - including a second pair to chrage in the external charger i also bought [takes 15mins to charge a pair rather than overnight in the mod via usb], spare smok v6 baby mesh coils and enough juice to last a few months.

Turned out that the juice i spent £25 lasted 3 months, and the mesh coils were lasting months each - so for maybe £50 i was getting 3months nicotine intake that used to cost £50 for two weeks - and this was with 18mg/ml nicotine juice. I only had to vape for a montth and a half and the whole outlay was break-even - by the time i passed that, anything else would have been foolish not to do regardless of the advantages i said i wasn't gonna crow about like quitting smoke, health, ttaste/smell returning, not stinking, clean non-ahsyness, no yellow stains, reduced nicotine intake etc etc etc.

The first signs of trouble in paradise appeared around xmas 2019/20 - approximately a year in; being me, means being an oaf - i'm a clumsy sod and tend to drop or knock things over. alot. even though ive never smashed a tank glass, i managed to trip and punt the vape so hard into the edge of a table it broke the switch trigger button thing clean off - luckily some electrical tape [black to match the sexy carbon fibe and anodised black finish of the vape] fixed that. then i managed to wear out the notches that kept the battery compartment door closed and started having to use tape to hold that shut - which meant retaping it every time i changed batteries.

The final nail in the coffin was the batteries reaching their lifespan number of charge cycles and no longer charging/holding charge. i dont know if this is partly a draw back of high mAh rated batteries and charging ultra fast in an external charger because the samsung 3000mAh i use now which are very common ones, dont seem to be so vulnerable to this issue, and also people i know who charge via the vapes usb socket overnight dont seem to suffer this problem for a long time if ever.

it was clearly time for a new expenditure - so research was necessary: after much deliberating and being put off by idiotic things like osme of thye names of the brans/models or cosmetic issues i finally discovered the existence of Geek Vape's 'Aegis' line up. the Aegis Legend mods are significantly waterproof, shockproof, drop-proof, heatproof, dustproof and generally all round 'me-proof'. there was absolutely no contest as far as mod choice went - and at £50 for the whole brand new mod in a fancy box with all kinds of cool stuff i was sold. and to top it off, tho i originally was gonna go for the camo print version just to have one that was a little different, the only shop that had aegis legend mods in stock in the uk at the time i was shopping for them, had, on their rather good website... snakeskin pattern mods - couldn't resist it!

i paired this mod with a smok V12 prince tank and sub ohm v12 prince mesh coils and some strip coils to compare - along with 4 new 18650 batteries, this time the common green samsung 3000mAh ones. bought juice for only the 5th time ever still spending about £25 every 3 months-ish and was set.

I have thouroghly used and abused the mod, tank, batteries and so on ever since and not had a single trouble and it looks like it'll continue to keep soldiering on for a while yet. i love geek vape and smok products and would recommend their stuff over n over. thank you for your masterpieces of technology guys :)