make three projects to see if they have sam emote when not associated:

alienS soundtrack orch theme

[?] prokofiev [no - other russian] christmas sleigh music box of delights thingy 

holst planets i think is mars[?]




......

Jonah Senzel — Today at 21:13
hey looking for schematic feedback if you have the time! info in pet rock general channel
wofl — Today at 21:33
down a horrendously involved 3day rabbithole rn but i'll take a peek next time i come to a natural breakpoitn...
Jonah Senzel — Today at 21:35
hahhaah
doing what?
wofl — Today at 21:38
..._[Abstract
A hedonic theory of music and sadness is proposed. Some listeners report that nominally sad music genuinely makes them feel sad. It is suggested that, for these listeners, sad affect is evoked through a combination of empathetic responses to sad acoustic features, learned associations, and cognitive rumination. Among those listeners who report sad feelings, some report an accompanying positive affect, whereas others report the experience to be solely negative. Levels of the hormone prolactin increase when sad – producing a consoling psychological effect suggestive of a homeostatic function. It is proposed that variations in prolactin levels might account for the variability in individual hedonic responses. Specifically, it is conjectured that high prolactin concentrations are associated with pleasurable music-induced sadness, whereas low prolactin concentrations are associated with unpleasant music-induced sadness....]_...

i innocently wondered why a particular tune always made me cry and yet i never turn it off - 3 days later, i've passed through music theory involving cadences, chord inversions and voicings, psychoacoustics, mathematics of why there's all this weird hidden stuff of broadcast recording processing like massive  dymnamic overcompression or playing things 2.5% faster, and now biology of hormone levels relating to some form of hedonistic drug seeking behavior in those more prone to get pleasureable experiences from sendogenous chemicals elicited by music...
😐




The musicologist Edward Lowinsky proposed that the cadence was the "cradle of tonality".[5]

a cadence (Latin cadentia, "a falling") is the end of a phrase in which the melody or harmony creates a sense of full or partial resolution

A harmonic cadence is a progression of two or more chords that concludes a phrase, section, or piece of music.[3]




https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cadence
