It Survives Merely As A Curiosity >.>

I came across a file today whilst searching for something completely unrelated that i never did manage to find. this file is a weird project that i put far too much work into and can only conclude i was in some manic episode when i made it since the dedication and patience that it must have taken would only exist in me when i'm borderline unwell:

it is at most basic level a list.

but... it is a very detaialed list and very comprehensive - it most likely contains near every bit of data  possible to collect on the subject matter as long after the list was made as could be had - it was already years out of date and hence a useless curiosity when made - now its good for nothing but maybe an anthropological essay on the most recent 20 years of the european drug scene, britain in particular:

it is a list of every single 'branded' legal high i could find pus the stated contents, sometimes the actual contents if different and relevant chemical/scientific info along with other useful info such as everyday legal drugs like caffeine for comparison in certain data fields. as pointless as this may seem to be bothering to preserve so long after it stopped being any use whatsoever, i must have put alot of work into it even though i have no memory of the actual work involved - so i choose to immortalise it here in the hope that some other weirdo will also derive entertainment or something from this repository of outdated and irrelevant knowledge:

please bear in mind, as is stated in the document itself, this is by no means a document that gives any info claiming to be accurate, and hence you shouldnt take any actions based on info derived from this source - especially not taking what are most likely by now, exceptionally old 'branded' legal highs [they're illegal highs now in the uk anyways - you've missed the boat on that one if you're a youngster in the uk - time to stay healthy and safe and avoid filling yourself with completely unknown and untested chemicals]. in other words do not take any of the substances mentioned in this list, do not take anything purposrting to be one of the substances on this list and do not attempt to put any blame onto me if you do something dumb - this is purely for entertainment purposes only.

the earliest dated version i can find of it on my computer says date created 20 ‎April ‎2017, ‏‎00:14:35 - but even then this weird 'branded' legal high scene was dead - it was a temporary obsession that fleetingly passed through my head and resulted in a surprisingly comprehensible document, which is laid out in the followqwing format:







the category headings are fixed at hte top as you scroll down so you dont have to remember what the different bits of intractable info are, near every entry has info missing of some sort and many likely have it wrong for reasons stated in the lists disclaimer - but one thing you can be sure of: there's an absolute crapton of entries in this list - i have absolutely no clue how the hell i managed to find so many different examples to list...





yup - that there little embedded file is the sum total of this whole stoopid blog entries build up - really something of an anticlimax. ahh welp, if you made it this far and found any kind of reward outta this then i'm happy, if not - you shoulda known to stop way earlier, i'm not gonna apologise!

on a serious note, for any with a particular interest in this subject and wish to know more from both a scientific and social side of things then there is a Channel 4 documentary called "Legally High - True Stories" :

………………………………………..
Legally High - True Stories
…………………………………
Duration :: 47 Minutes
………………..
broadcast on 8 August 2013
..........

It is a fascinating peek into the worlds of both the guy who designs the drugs, the vendors whp sell the drugs and the youths who use them to get high. eye opening or nostalgic depending on the life you have lived...