


always ask why.
it's not an affront to authority. its not an insult. its a sign of tryi g to understand. i.e. an intent to learn.

learning is key.
with the right knowledge a £$0 doepfer liecnsed serge VCS clone can be about 20 other basic modules. 2 of them can do near aany function most analogue core regular can even when they seemingly have speciaal unique features nothing else has. do you _really_ to spend $500 on something just to have the 'momentum' knob or w/e?

invest time not money.
time is free. it is a not a non-resource we have to conserve. this means both use it but also, it'll always be there so sometimes - take a break, there's no rush.
pretty much anything you can but with money, given sufficient time you can also achieve for less money. to the pont that:
t \propto r

if you don't understand something, you are basically relying on luck to get good results from it's use.
this doesn't mean you wont get good results, it just means you might take a very long time or put in a lot of wasted work to get thse results and even then, you risk them being gone s qquckly as they came, also at risk o being unable to dupicate rhe results.

nevertheless, experimentation andd randomness are not to be stigmatised. i.e.

fuck about.
when employed as optional tools in a greater selection - with sufficient understanding, experimentation and randomness can be enhanced as useful tools not just be hit it n hope options that are seemingly as successful as the others if you lack undrstanding in generl.

break the rules.
when done with understanding, it is clear why rules exist, what the risks of breaking them are and hence what circuumstances make it ok to disable the normally default safety features.
rules do have a purpose, most  of the time it's wise t follow them, and it's easier to just let things tick along with rules in place rther than for every single little ecisionall day every day, it's more efficient to pick froma few simple chices brokn down as god options based on pre-established rules.

don't assume the masses are always correct.
in fact they rarely are. again, ask why. often thre's further idden menu options or deeper contest relevancy that may alter the specific circumstance youn dsicver yourself in.

don't even feel compelled to listn to single individualls i.e. don't worry about what othr people think.
aas long as you thought firsy, either you already made your decision and are doing wht you consider right, or use all avaiable information to see the bigicture - it quickly becomes clear whos opinion maters - yours.

this arries an important corollary:
when thnking aout any situation, assess 'will it  hurt anone'
you ma not car butothers might. if youve honestly though it through andevverything else is dealt with, pick the opton that hurts no-one or the least people/achieves balance between hurts and rewards.

ome may find it more surprising how mny similarities there are between the philosophies of buddhism, nietzche, stoiscm, some hindu approaches, older pilosophies/religions again, and nn fact many sources of ways to cope with the universe - it's not about what beardy guy inthe sky with sandals on you listen to somuch as whether you've applied some thought as both how it affects others vs, hw it affectst

helping others is worth it.
it is necessary to weigh up helping others vs. following set rules defined by people who aren't you. especially if all situations might result in not only an form of harm to othes but will cause you fr any reason no longer be able to  hal others as sccessfully.

for the same reasons but stated specifically;
help yourself first. thn help others. its not selfish, its common sense - if you are in a a position of needing help/recovery then youre no good to ohers.

know when to override or disable lifes rules and sttings.
theyre defaults for everyday onvenience and eased performance optimisation, _not_ absolute guaranteed prfect best choice ways to operate in all circumstances regardless off actual common sense.
if the sign says do not walk on the grass, but the sidewalk is molten lava - you walk on the grass. 

politeness is a social convention for sheepp who do not bother to use their brains.
respect is something that comes from demonstration of qualification.
pay people respect when i is ue and you will fulfll all necessary 'politeness' requirements as far as etthis go, but you wont find yourself endlessly blathering out pointless platitudes the sheep feel necessary to confirm their otherswise unustified lack of value and hence existence on the planet. if someone hasnt earned a compliment/gratitude/etc. dont lower yourself to giving it because some completely illogical social rule dictates you should. it doesnt help you and it encourages them to continue thinking they are doing good. if you are respectful t the deserving, this attitude should not feel wrong or carry any element of guilt. that is merely the result of years of conditioning to a system based on destroying all intelligenr, logical, deductive reasoning, creative though or temptation to learn for yourself.
again, knowledge. it may lead you to a similar place often, but it's not an acceptable replacement to just follow preprogramed scripts dictated by others.

[surely that seems obvious and you smell an instat rat seeing it put like that - we are human. therefore we are all different. each interaction, each situation, every single moent under the sun will be new  or havr a ton of variables. blindly foollowing one set script and going 'bahhhh bahhhhh bahhhh' unsurprisingly leads to problems when things aren't quite within certain boundaries - not all eventualities can be covered, so ifc the sheep, when faced with the unusual/stressful/exteme/etc. resort to utter idiocy and failing to cope. those who use logic, reason, respect when earned etc. - can apply this t even situations out of the norm and tere's still ability to cope regardless of no script to help.]

[[if you still don't believe me - ask yourself 'why did/does every single goddamn persn with a brain, all the people with some smorts and ability to think outside of the bounds of the sheep always turn out to be those who stir trouble socially?' from richard feinmann to hunter s. thompson it's a universal eleent noticeable... not coincidence]]

