if you've never read the book of the silence of the lambs, and only seen the movie, here's why you should read the book:

QOTD Bot
BOT
 — Today at 05:04
today's question
What movie completely changes its plot when you change one letter in its title? What's the new movie about?
Author: QOTD Bot#8598 -- Card: vzxzqd -- Deck: QOTD Starter Deck -- 94 Cards Remaining -- 0 Suggestions
QOTD Bot
 pinned 
a message
 to this channel. See all 
pinned messages
.
 — Today at 05:04
wofl — Today at 11:17
[i've seen all these questions cycle through before many times on discord...]
my fav answer i ever came up with to this one was;
`silence of the lamps:
a moth hatches from his chrysalis and begins hunting down beautiful butter flies to steal their colourful wings in order to become pretty.

terrified, a young rookie beetle is assigned the task of getting the help of mandy the mandible - a psychopathic praying mantis that  is s likely to eat her as help her...`
[i have multiple versions of this somewhere on my dropbox/hardrives, each different, some go on for pages. some are fucking hilarious, some are reeeely goddamn creepsy. different every time.]
wofl — Today at 11:25
`[*moths are pretty - the whole point is its a commentary on the nature of self love and the lengths people will go to too achieve a result that has nothing to do with simple base outward appearance, but in fact internal core self satisfaction and acceptance.

don't try to be a butterfly if you aren't. recognise moths are far more beautiful and be happy you  are a moth.]`
`[[the actual silence of the lambs otoh was not about that at all - jame gumb was, for a wonderfully depressing set of complexities that make a stark point about american social structure, unable to get the surgery so desperately desired to be what would hopefully result in happiness to the extreme that an entire outfit of girlskin was seemingly the only solution - the  whole thing goes way deeper, darker, and generally is much more scary than any surface nonsense attitude that the movie is in any way scary because it has a serial killer or two or some murders.

tho it is an immense accolade to anthony hopkins that since the movie version just stripped out most of the details that make the point about jame gumbs story being what it is, the character portrayal of hannibal lecter so steals the show it is still entirely wonderful in it's own right as a movie, but it is apparent why people view it as a scary serial killer movie and are largely unaware of the book's commentary on social attitudes to transgender issues, surgery, and much much more...]]`