YLEM RECORDS 2021 RELEASES EXPLAINED

here's last years releases with some insight into what either inspired or helped create them:

[i'd write a similar section of the blog for the two "best of's" too but they contain tunes from 20yrs past - i honestly havent a clue how half of them were made or inspired lol.]

this years lofi buffaLOFIsh tracks

buffaLOFIsh - Industrial Index Finger: a title by my fren droids [i think i accidentally also used it as a track tite on the album 'generative modular ambient sessions vol.1']

Maine Poon: a track name by my fren droids, the music inspired by trying to sample aphextwin, intended to just be a beat for les beats phantastique vol.5 but became a whhole lofi track.

Paperkraft Kick: inspired by the lofi house of artists auch as DJ ÆDIDIAS - just a nice to dance to house track

Jimmys Funeral: a track title from my fren droids, the music? lofi house /shrug…

Cover art by:
soren

this years (mostly) techno works by me n the waxcide collective dj, DNSK working together - he did vocals on every single track this time!

waxcide collective - Fundamentally Vulgar

It Ain't You It's The MDMA: my fren DNSK was in a party mood, excited and wanted to make a music; he came up with a silly phrase recorded it and sent it to me, the rest just fell into place.

Do Not Look At The Moon: we [me n DNSK] always loved the video for Fear and Loathing techno outfits mix 'Outbreak | Deep Dark & Acid Techno 2020' - an excellent acid techno mix with a real creepy scpesque video to accompany iy. turns out the vocals for Do Not Look At the Moon are actually inspired by "Weather Service" from Local 58 number 1. by Kristofer Straub. the rest of the music was my brand new toy a td3 to do the acid line and then along with layers of that some drums.

Town Sound Of Drugs: another case of DNSK coming up with a silly phrase [in fact 'the sound of the drums of the underground town'] which was then turned into techno…

Organism 12 - Maskrosbarn (waxcide collective cover - feat. DNSK) [prod. buffaLOFIsh]: DNSK loved the original and wanted to cover it one day, after laying down the main vocal i thought a little fill in bit would be cool - the folky sounding song and other parts of the lyrics mention 'shoes' - oldskool slang for speed [wearing fast shoes tonight!] which was relevant to some of those in our circle with druug issues at the time rendering the track somewhat poignant.

Cover art by:
soren

this year a new beat tape

les beats phantastique vol.5: this volume has alot of tracks sampled from 90s indie rock songs but in general is very much pop-rock from a swathe of various eras and so has a rather varied but colourful set of feels to the beats

this years thomas wulfe album

Thomas Wulfe - Lipstick and Liquor: an album title from my fren droids!

La Isla Tropical: buried in here is a madonna sample and the track was one for my departed fren moth. lubs you forever moth.

Toxoplasmotits: a track title thats a classic from my fren droids, a recording from my eurorack generative modular system.

Polyrhythm Study A: an exercise in seeing what can be made using polyrhythms to sequence the synths in an ambient track.

Swahili Sensations: a track title thats a classic from my fren droids, a recording from my asys modular analogue synth, the characteristic sound comes from saturating the moog trannsistor ladder filter.

Clarinet Confessions: a track title thats a classic from my fren droids, a generative modular eurorack recording. accidentally used this title for a track on the album 'live generative modular sessions vol.1' too. ooops…

Ring Of Smonk: a slow starter but its actually the drums that sell me on this one - they manage to carry the main melody.

Cheap Dystopia: another generative eurorack modular recording - thing decided to go real bleak this particular time!

Heat Swarmothy: an exploration of ableton 11's new vocal synth tools.

Challenger Noise: the result of an exercise in constructing a track entirely from noise - every single sound is noise, filtered, enveloped, shaped, looped etc.

Propylene Glycol: another generative eeurorack modular recording.

Comsmonaut Snail: i asked my fren snail to give me a random word and he said 'cosmonaut'; i chose a synth to work with, the pro1 - this was the resulting track.

2 Notes: the result of an exercise in making a track using only two notes - there are various octaves, timmbres and filtering techniques etc, but only two notes!

Cover art by kill chookie originally came from some rainbow colours printed using a certain body part she sat on the paper with - much compter editing later this was the result - see the artists own page kc custom artwork for more: https://www.instagram.com/customartbykc/

and finally, this years techno

waxcide - Less Seizures More Wax: another droids album title.

U Cant Wear Sandals On The Moon: a track title from my fren droids, dub techno made using the modular synth to process sounds

Trashcan Compactor: i honestly don't have a clue /shrug

The A-Team Remix: the simon pegg/nick frost tv series 'spaced' featured an episode where they went clubbing and nick frost became club hero to a remix of the a-team theme tune. but it was never avaiable as a full length track that i could find and tho there's remixes out there i was never satsfied with any. i always find trad dubsttep sounds to be too thin andd weedy so i made my own variation on the genre with a bit more beef…

Rescued From Disaster: sketti, you always wondered what became of the chinese rocket? it's in there, …somewhere!

Patella Propellor: a droids track title; i made some synth sounds on the modular. stretched em in ableton. switched algorythm. and wow. this MUST be sed in a techno. so i added the rest. this is the result…

New HDD Dub: the inspiration started as an exercise inusing different types of reverb on different freuqncies of the spectrum of the track overall - by the time it turned into a dub techno track and the adventure time sample was added to the top it was a trip

modular techno: a really uninspired title for a track - describes what it is, does what it says on the tin, says what it does on the tin - its techno made on the modular lol

Drug Bag: i just had a comedy inspration from a dumb thing soeone did and it became this. i love recording my voice and manipulating it to make music, so since i found myself walking round the house chanting this phrase i thought why not make it a track

Do Some Cardio Everyday: i remember there was a sample and a sound - dunno which came first but they were perfect together, the weiird modular noises just sat on top to completion

Gnarls Barkley - Crazy (Wofls's remix for b4rd): i wanted to make something personal for my fren b4rd as a bday gift and i love the lyrics and they seemed relevant - i put alot of work in maling what i think really does the vocal justice musically yet is very different from the original.

Fisher - Stop It (waxcide remix): this was all about me luxuiating in my favourite parts of the trak and really doing something to make it changed - i already wrote a whole blog entry on it

Ariana Grande - Into you (Michael Kiwanuka cover) (waxcide electronic remix): heard this recording and just thought - 'this needs more'

album art original waxcide logo, then algorithmic graphic distortion by Mother Dessicant i don't really know anything about this technique so i refer you to the artists own pag: https://thisisprettybroken.tumblr.com/