the klf:
the 'Kopyright Liberation Front'

they were fucking immense in the 90s during acid house/summer of love and made absolute incredibble music

...
unfortunately tey managed to reach this point in their career due an unitnentiinal and slightly, for them, problematic route:
they amd ea shitty album, sorta for a laugh in 80s, it did ok
they saw real music industry - werent musicins - ones an artist the others some sort of journo training or something i thnk?
like way smorter and intellectual than the average 'happy mondays drug guy'
so when they got that first album doing ok, they didnt like he industry, made a fake joke alias band [look up 'the timelords - doctorin the tardis']
and also published a sorta secret btu not secret anonymous but not anonymous book explaining how ith no talent, no money invested, no connections induatry etc. etc. how to ahve a no.1 hit single
their song was uk no biggerst that year and absolute hit
irony hen the pint they were making was absolute proved but also made them hate themselves even worse
so then they became kfl and no matter what they did it was fucking aweosme cos they just didnt give a shit, didnt follow rules, etc.
it resulted in fucking spectular music.
eventually they got so much money etc. they went nuts at a huge award ceremony - ivor novellos or something, let off mahcine guns loaded with blanks at the audience, thew a gory dead bleeding sheep carcass into the after party and vanished


a few days later they broadcast footage of them burning $1,000,000 cash of their own roylty earnigns form illegal samples in their music and total disappear.

onyl resurfaced in 2017
best part? this is them now:

https://  gettyimages-86119183_wide-f185ac26614eac2fcbaf14627691441a896315fc-s1100-c50.png?width=2031&height=1141

Jimmy Cauty, left/Bill Drummond, right. you gotta love the pipe_


bill drummond at one point used to manage one of those not the_ beatles liverpool bands like 'the merseymen' or whatever the fuck they were called [all sound the same to me]


https://youtu.be/aEeYtwwh3SE

i shit ye not, yes, those guys made this. :O
:)